POSTGRES_SETUP_COMPLETE.md, before:

# Vercel Postgres Migration - COMPLETE ✅

## Summary

Your BountyPay application has been successfully migrated from SQLite to **Vercel Postgres** with full environment tracking support. All code has been updated, tested, and is ready for deployment.

---

## What Was Completed

### ✅ 1. Installed Vercel Postgres

```bash
npm install @vercel/postgres
```

### ✅ 2. Created New Postgres Database Module

**File:** `server/db/postgres.js`

- All queries converted to async/await
- Full Postgres-compatible SQL syntax
- **NEW:** Environment tracking field added to bounties table
- Auto-initialization on first use

### ✅ 3. Added Environment Tracking

Bounties now track whether they were created in `stage` or `production`:

```sql
environment TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'stage'
```

**Why this matters:**
- Stage and production use **separate GitHub Apps**
- Prevents cross-environment data contamination
- Allows safe testing in staging without affecting production
- Queries automatically filter by current environment

### ✅ 4. Updated All API Routes

**Updated to use async Postgres queries:**

- `app/api/bounty/create/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/bounty/[bountyId]/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/contract/bounty/[bountyId]/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/issue/[repoId]/[issueNumber]/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/stats/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/wallet/link/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/wallet/[githubId]/route.js` ✅

### ✅ 5. Updated Webhook Handlers

**File:** `server/github/webhooks.js`

- All database calls now properly awaited
- Environment-aware bounty lookups
- Handles async Postgres queries correctly

### ✅ 6. Removed Old SQLite Files

**Deleted:**
- `server/db/index.js` (old SQLite module)
- `server/db/schema.js` (old schema)
- `server/db/migrate.js` (migration script)
- `server/db/bounty.db` (database file)
- `server/db/migrations/001_add_network_support.sql`
- `better-sqlite3` dependency from `package.json`

### ✅ 7. Updated Configuration Files

- `package.json` - Removed SQLite, added Postgres ✅
- `next.config.js` - Removed SQLite webpack config ✅

### ✅ 8. Build Verified

```bash
✓ Compiled successfully
✓ Linting and checking validity of types
✓ Generating static pages (20/20)
```

**No errors!** 🎉

### ✅ 9. Updated Documentation

- `POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md` - Complete migration guide ✅
- `VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md` - Updated with Postgres setup steps ✅
- `DATABASE_SETUP.md` - Already had Postgres info ✅

---

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Create Postgres Database in Vercel

1. Go to [Vercel Dashboard](https://vercel.com/dashboard)
2. Select your project
3. Navigate to **Storage** tab
4. Click **"Create Database"** → **"Postgres"**
5. Name it `bountypay-db`
6. Click **"Create"**

Vercel automatically sets these environment variables:
- `POSTGRES_URL`
- `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`
- `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING`
- Plus others...

### 2. Set Required Environment Variables

Add these to **all environments** (Production, Preview, Development):

#### For Staging Environment:
```bash
ENV_TARGET=stage
FRONTEND_URL=https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz
SESSION_SECRET=your-secret-here
```

#### For Production Environment:
```bash
ENV_TARGET=prod
FRONTEND_URL=https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz
SESSION_SECRET=your-secret-here
```

**Important:** Use the **same** `SESSION_SECRET` across all environments!

### 3. Deploy

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Migrate to Vercel Postgres with environment tracking"
git push
```

Vercel will automatically deploy. Database tables will be created on first API call.

### 4. Verify Deployment

Check Vercel logs for:
```
✅ Postgres database initialized
```

Test the API:
```bash
curl https://your-app.vercel.app/api/stats
```

---

## Key Features

### 🔐 Environment Isolation

**Stage bounties are completely separate from production bounties.**

When you set `ENV_TARGET=stage`:
- Only stage bounties are returned in queries
- Stats only include stage bounties
- No cross-contamination with production data

When you set `ENV_TARGET=prod`:
- Only production bounties are returned
- Stats only include production bounties
- Independent from staging data

### 🔄 Automatic Environment Detection

The database module automatically reads `CONFIG.envTarget` and:
- Tags new bounties with the current environment
- Filters all queries by the current environment
- Includes environment in uniqueness constraints

### 📊 Environment-Aware Stats

The stats API (`/api/stats`) automatically filters by environment:

```javascript
// In staging:
GET /api/stats → Only returns stage bounties

// In production:
GET /api/stats → Only returns production bounties
```

### 💾 Persistent Storage

Unlike the old SQLite setup (which used ephemeral `/tmp` storage):
- ✅ Data persists across deployments
- ✅ Data survives serverless cold starts
- ✅ Data is backed up by Vercel
- ✅ Production-ready and scalable

---

## Environment Variables Required

### Core (All Environments)

| Variable | Value | Purpose |
|----------|-------|---------|
| `ENV_TARGET` | `stage` or `prod` | Determines environment for bounty tracking |
| `SESSION_SECRET` | Same everywhere | Session cookie encryption |
| `FRONTEND_URL` | Your deployment URL | OAuth callbacks, webhooks |

### GitHub App (Per Environment)

| Variable | Staging | Production |
|----------|---------|------------|
| `GITHUB_APP_ID` | Stage app ID | Prod app ID |
| `GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY` | Stage key | Prod key |
| `GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | Stage secret | Prod secret |
| `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` | Stage OAuth ID | Prod OAuth ID |
| `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | Stage OAuth secret | Prod OAuth secret |

### Blockchain (Same for both)

| Variable | Value |
|----------|-------|
| `ESCROW_CONTRACT` | Contract address |
| `RESOLVER_PRIVATE_KEY` | Wallet private key |
| `CHAIN_ID` | 84532 (Base Sepolia) |
| `RPC_URL` | https://sepolia.base.org |

### Database (Auto-set by Vercel)

These are automatically set when you create a Postgres database:
- `POSTGRES_URL`
- `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`
- `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING`
- `POSTGRES_USER`
- `POSTGRES_HOST`
- `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`
- `POSTGRES_DATABASE`

---

## Testing Plan

### 1. Test Staging Deployment

```bash
# Create a test bounty
curl -X POST https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz/api/bounty/create \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{ ... bounty data ... }'

# Verify it's tagged with environment=stage
curl https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats
```

### 2. Test Production Deployment

```bash
# Create a test bounty
curl -X POST https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz/api/bounty/create \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{ ... bounty data ... }'

# Verify it's tagged with environment=prod
curl https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats
```

### 3. Verify Environment Isolation

```bash
# Stage should only show stage bounties
curl https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats

# Production should only show production bounties
curl https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats
```

They should return **different data sets**.

---

## Database Schema

### Bounties Table

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS bounties (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  bounty_id TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  repo_full_name TEXT NOT NULL,
  repo_id BIGINT NOT NULL,
  issue_number INTEGER NOT NULL,
  sponsor_address TEXT NOT NULL,
  sponsor_github_id BIGINT,
  token TEXT NOT NULL,
  amount TEXT NOT NULL,
  deadline BIGINT NOT NULL,
  status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'open',
  tx_hash TEXT,
  network TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'BASE_SEPOLIA',
  chain_id INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 84532,
  token_symbol TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'USDC',
  environment TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'stage',          -- NEW!
  created_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  updated_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  pinned_comment_id BIGINT,
  UNIQUE(repo_id, issue_number, sponsor_address, network, environment)
);
```

### Wallet Mappings Table

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS wallet_mappings (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  github_id BIGINT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  github_username TEXT NOT NULL,
  wallet_address TEXT NOT NULL,
  verified_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  created_at BIGINT NOT NULL
);
```

### PR Claims Table

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS pr_claims (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  bounty_id TEXT NOT NULL,
  pr_number INTEGER NOT NULL,
  pr_author_github_id BIGINT NOT NULL,
  repo_full_name TEXT NOT NULL,
  status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending',
  created_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  resolved_at BIGINT,
  tx_hash TEXT
);
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: "relation does not exist"

**Solution:** Tables haven't been created yet. Make any API call to trigger `initDB()`:

```bash
curl https://your-app.vercel.app/api/health
```

### Issue: "database connection failed"

**Solution:** Verify Postgres database is created in Vercel and environment variables are set.

### Issue: Bounties not showing up

**Solution:** Check that `ENV_TARGET` is set correctly for the environment you're querying.

### Issue: OAuth still failing

**Solution:** 
1. Verify `FRONTEND_URL` is set correctly
2. Check GitHub App callback URL matches deployment URL
3. Ensure `SESSION_SECRET` is set and identical across environments

---

## Migration Benefits

| Feature | SQLite (Old) | Postgres (New) |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| **Persistence** | ❌ Ephemeral (`/tmp`) | ✅ Permanent |
| **Scalability** | ❌ Single file | ✅ Distributed |
| **Concurrency** | ❌ Limited | ✅ Excellent |
| **Environment Isolation** | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Built-in |
| **Vercel Integration** | ❌ Not compatible | ✅ Native |
| **Data Loss Risk** | ⚠️ High (every deploy) | ✅ None |
| **Production Ready** | ❌ No | ✅ Yes |

---

## Files Changed

### Created
- ✅ `server/db/postgres.js` - New Postgres database module
- ✅ `POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md` - Complete migration guide
- ✅ `POSTGRES_SETUP_COMPLETE.md` - This file

### Updated
- ✅ `package.json` - Added @vercel/postgres, removed better-sqlite3
- ✅ `next.config.js` - Removed SQLite webpack config
- ✅ `VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md` - Added Postgres setup steps
- ✅ All API routes (8 files) - Updated to async Postgres queries
- ✅ `server/github/webhooks.js` - Updated to async Postgres queries

### Deleted
- ❌ `server/db/index.js`
- ❌ `server/db/schema.js`
- ❌ `server/db/migrate.js`
- ❌ `server/db/bounty.db`
- ❌ `server/db/migrations/001_add_network_support.sql`

---

## Next Steps

### Immediate (Required)

1. ✅ Code is ready (already done)
2. 🚀 Create Postgres database in Vercel
3. 🔧 Set `ENV_TARGET` environment variable
4. 📤 Deploy to Vercel
5. ✅ Verify deployment works

### Follow-up (Recommended)

1. 🧪 Test bounty creation in staging
2. 🔍 Verify environment isolation
3. 📊 Check stats API returns correct data
4. 🎯 Deploy to production
5. 🎉 Celebrate! 🎊

---

## Support

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check Vercel logs for errors
2. Verify all environment variables are set
3. Ensure Postgres database is created
4. Review `POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md` for detailed troubleshooting
5. Check `VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md` for deployment steps

---

## Rollback (Emergency Only)

If needed, you can rollback to SQLite (not recommended):

```bash
git log  # Find the commit before migration
git revert <commit-hash>
npm install better-sqlite3
git push
```

**However**, Postgres is production-ready and much more reliable than SQLite on Vercel.

---

**Status: ✅ READY FOR DEPLOYMENT**

All code changes are complete, tested, and ready to deploy to Vercel!

Commit message:

Update Postgres environment variable references and enhance database connection handling
- Updated documentation in POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md, POSTGRES_SETUP_COMPLETE.md, and VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md to reflect new environment variable names with the "BOUNTY_" prefix.
- Improved database connection handling in server/db/postgres.js by implementing lazy-loading for the connection pool, ensuring better error handling and performance.
- Ensured that the app consistently uses the new environment variable for database connections.

POSTGRES_SETUP_COMPLETE.md, after:

# Vercel Postgres Migration - COMPLETE ✅

## Summary

Your BountyPay application has been successfully migrated from SQLite to **Vercel Postgres** with full environment tracking support. All code has been updated, tested, and is ready for deployment.

---

## What Was Completed

### ✅ 1. Installed Vercel Postgres

```bash
npm install @vercel/postgres
```

### ✅ 2. Created New Postgres Database Module

**File:** `server/db/postgres.js`

- All queries converted to async/await
- Full Postgres-compatible SQL syntax
- **NEW:** Environment tracking field added to bounties table
- Auto-initialization on first use

### ✅ 3. Added Environment Tracking

Bounties now track whether they were created in `stage` or `production`:

```sql
environment TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'stage'
```

**Why this matters:**
- Stage and production use **separate GitHub Apps**
- Prevents cross-environment data contamination
- Allows safe testing in staging without affecting production
- Queries automatically filter by current environment

### ✅ 4. Updated All API Routes

**Updated to use async Postgres queries:**

- `app/api/bounty/create/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/bounty/[bountyId]/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/contract/bounty/[bountyId]/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/issue/[repoId]/[issueNumber]/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/stats/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/wallet/link/route.js` ✅
- `app/api/wallet/[githubId]/route.js` ✅

### ✅ 5. Updated Webhook Handlers

**File:** `server/github/webhooks.js`

- All database calls now properly awaited
- Environment-aware bounty lookups
- Handles async Postgres queries correctly

### ✅ 6. Removed Old SQLite Files

**Deleted:**
- `server/db/index.js` (old SQLite module)
- `server/db/schema.js` (old schema)
- `server/db/migrate.js` (migration script)
- `server/db/bounty.db` (database file)
- `server/db/migrations/001_add_network_support.sql`
- `better-sqlite3` dependency from `package.json`

### ✅ 7. Updated Configuration Files

- `package.json` - Removed SQLite, added Postgres ✅
- `next.config.js` - Removed SQLite webpack config ✅

### ✅ 8. Build Verified

```bash
✓ Compiled successfully
✓ Linting and checking validity of types
✓ Generating static pages (20/20)
```

**No errors!** 🎉

### ✅ 9. Updated Documentation

- `POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md` - Complete migration guide ✅
- `VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md` - Updated with Postgres setup steps ✅
- `DATABASE_SETUP.md` - Already had Postgres info ✅

---

## Deployment Steps

### 1. Create Postgres Database in Vercel

1. Go to [Vercel Dashboard](https://vercel.com/dashboard)
2. Select your project
3. Navigate to **Storage** tab
4. Click **"Create Database"** → **"Postgres"**
5. Name it `bountypay-db`
6. Click **"Create"**

Vercel automatically sets these environment variables:
- `POSTGRES_URL`
- `POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL`
- `POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING`
- Plus others...

### 2. Set Required Environment Variables

Add these to **all environments** (Production, Preview, Development):

#### For Staging Environment:
```bash
ENV_TARGET=stage
FRONTEND_URL=https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz
SESSION_SECRET=your-secret-here
```

#### For Production Environment:
```bash
ENV_TARGET=prod
FRONTEND_URL=https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz
SESSION_SECRET=your-secret-here
```

**Important:** Use the **same** `SESSION_SECRET` across all environments!

### 3. Deploy

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Migrate to Vercel Postgres with environment tracking"
git push
```

Vercel will automatically deploy. Database tables will be created on first API call.

### 4. Verify Deployment

Check Vercel logs for:
```
✅ Postgres database initialized
```

Test the API:
```bash
curl https://your-app.vercel.app/api/stats
```

---

## Key Features

### 🔐 Environment Isolation

**Stage bounties are completely separate from production bounties.**

When you set `ENV_TARGET=stage`:
- Only stage bounties are returned in queries
- Stats only include stage bounties
- No cross-contamination with production data

When you set `ENV_TARGET=prod`:
- Only production bounties are returned
- Stats only include production bounties
- Independent from staging data

### 🔄 Automatic Environment Detection

The database module automatically reads `CONFIG.envTarget` and:
- Tags new bounties with the current environment
- Filters all queries by the current environment
- Includes environment in uniqueness constraints

### 📊 Environment-Aware Stats

The stats API (`/api/stats`) automatically filters by environment:

```javascript
// In staging:
GET /api/stats → Only returns stage bounties

// In production:
GET /api/stats → Only returns production bounties
```

### 💾 Persistent Storage

Unlike the old SQLite setup (which used ephemeral `/tmp` storage):
- ✅ Data persists across deployments
- ✅ Data survives serverless cold starts
- ✅ Data is backed up by Vercel
- ✅ Production-ready and scalable

---

## Environment Variables Required

### Core (All Environments)

| Variable | Value | Purpose |
|----------|-------|---------|
| `ENV_TARGET` | `stage` or `prod` | Determines environment for bounty tracking |
| `SESSION_SECRET` | Same everywhere | Session cookie encryption |
| `FRONTEND_URL` | Your deployment URL | OAuth callbacks, webhooks |

### GitHub App (Per Environment)

| Variable | Staging | Production |
|----------|---------|------------|
| `GITHUB_APP_ID` | Stage app ID | Prod app ID |
| `GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY` | Stage key | Prod key |
| `GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET` | Stage secret | Prod secret |
| `GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` | Stage OAuth ID | Prod OAuth ID |
| `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` | Stage OAuth secret | Prod OAuth secret |

### Blockchain (Same for both)

| Variable | Value |
|----------|-------|
| `ESCROW_CONTRACT` | Contract address |
| `RESOLVER_PRIVATE_KEY` | Wallet private key |
| `CHAIN_ID` | 84532 (Base Sepolia) |
| `RPC_URL` | https://sepolia.base.org |

### Database (Auto-set by Vercel)

These are automatically set when you create a Postgres database (with your database prefix):
- `BOUNTY_POSTGRES_URL` ← Used by the app
- `BOUNTY_PRISMA_DATABASE_URL`
- `BOUNTY_DATABASE_URL`
- And others...

**Note:** The app is configured to use `BOUNTY_POSTGRES_URL` for the database connection.

---

## Testing Plan

### 1. Test Staging Deployment

```bash
# Create a test bounty
curl -X POST https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz/api/bounty/create \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{ ... bounty data ... }'

# Verify it's tagged with environment=stage
curl https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats
```

### 2. Test Production Deployment

```bash
# Create a test bounty
curl -X POST https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz/api/bounty/create \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{ ... bounty data ... }'

# Verify it's tagged with environment=prod
curl https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats
```

### 3. Verify Environment Isolation

```bash
# Stage should only show stage bounties
curl https://bounty-stage.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats

# Production should only show production bounties
curl https://bounty.luccilabs.xyz/api/stats
```

They should return **different data sets**.

---

## Database Schema

### Bounties Table

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS bounties (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  bounty_id TEXT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  repo_full_name TEXT NOT NULL,
  repo_id BIGINT NOT NULL,
  issue_number INTEGER NOT NULL,
  sponsor_address TEXT NOT NULL,
  sponsor_github_id BIGINT,
  token TEXT NOT NULL,
  amount TEXT NOT NULL,
  deadline BIGINT NOT NULL,
  status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'open',
  tx_hash TEXT,
  network TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'BASE_SEPOLIA',
  chain_id INTEGER NOT NULL DEFAULT 84532,
  token_symbol TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'USDC',
  environment TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'stage',          -- NEW!
  created_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  updated_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  pinned_comment_id BIGINT,
  UNIQUE(repo_id, issue_number, sponsor_address, network, environment)
);
```

### Wallet Mappings Table

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS wallet_mappings (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  github_id BIGINT UNIQUE NOT NULL,
  github_username TEXT NOT NULL,
  wallet_address TEXT NOT NULL,
  verified_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  created_at BIGINT NOT NULL
);
```

### PR Claims Table

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS pr_claims (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  bounty_id TEXT NOT NULL,
  pr_number INTEGER NOT NULL,
  pr_author_github_id BIGINT NOT NULL,
  repo_full_name TEXT NOT NULL,
  status TEXT NOT NULL DEFAULT 'pending',
  created_at BIGINT NOT NULL,
  resolved_at BIGINT,
  tx_hash TEXT
);
```

---

## Troubleshooting

### Issue: "relation does not exist"

**Solution:** Tables haven't been created yet. Make any API call to trigger `initDB()`:

```bash
curl https://your-app.vercel.app/api/health
```

### Issue: "database connection failed"

**Solution:** Verify Postgres database is created in Vercel and environment variables are set.

### Issue: Bounties not showing up

**Solution:** Check that `ENV_TARGET` is set correctly for the environment you're querying.

### Issue: OAuth still failing

**Solution:** 
1. Verify `FRONTEND_URL` is set correctly
2. Check GitHub App callback URL matches deployment URL
3. Ensure `SESSION_SECRET` is set and identical across environments

---

## Migration Benefits

| Feature | SQLite (Old) | Postgres (New) |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| **Persistence** | ❌ Ephemeral (`/tmp`) | ✅ Permanent |
| **Scalability** | ❌ Single file | ✅ Distributed |
| **Concurrency** | ❌ Limited | ✅ Excellent |
| **Environment Isolation** | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Built-in |
| **Vercel Integration** | ❌ Not compatible | ✅ Native |
| **Data Loss Risk** | ⚠️ High (every deploy) | ✅ None |
| **Production Ready** | ❌ No | ✅ Yes |

---

## Files Changed

### Created
- ✅ `server/db/postgres.js` - New Postgres database module
- ✅ `POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md` - Complete migration guide
- ✅ `POSTGRES_SETUP_COMPLETE.md` - This file

### Updated
- ✅ `package.json` - Added @vercel/postgres, removed better-sqlite3
- ✅ `next.config.js` - Removed SQLite webpack config
- ✅ `VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md` - Added Postgres setup steps
- ✅ All API routes (8 files) - Updated to async Postgres queries
- ✅ `server/github/webhooks.js` - Updated to async Postgres queries

### Deleted
- ❌ `server/db/index.js`
- ❌ `server/db/schema.js`
- ❌ `server/db/migrate.js`
- ❌ `server/db/bounty.db`
- ❌ `server/db/migrations/001_add_network_support.sql`

---

## Next Steps

### Immediate (Required)

1. ✅ Code is ready (already done)
2. 🚀 Create Postgres database in Vercel
3. 🔧 Set `ENV_TARGET` environment variable
4. 📤 Deploy to Vercel
5. ✅ Verify deployment works

### Follow-up (Recommended)

1. 🧪 Test bounty creation in staging
2. 🔍 Verify environment isolation
3. 📊 Check stats API returns correct data
4. 🎯 Deploy to production
5. 🎉 Celebrate! 🎊

---

## Support

If you encounter any issues:

1. Check Vercel logs for errors
2. Verify all environment variables are set
3. Ensure Postgres database is created
4. Review `POSTGRES_MIGRATION.md` for detailed troubleshooting
5. Check `VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT.md` for deployment steps

---

## Rollback (Emergency Only)

If needed, you can rollback to SQLite (not recommended):

```bash
git log  # Find the commit before migration
git revert <commit-hash>
npm install better-sqlite3
git push
```

**However**, Postgres is production-ready and much more reliable than SQLite on Vercel.

---

**Status: ✅ READY FOR DEPLOYMENT**

All code changes are complete, tested, and ready to deploy to Vercel!
